
JUST ADD OS/2 WARP
Frequently Asked Questions 
November 14, 1995
Updated December 15, 1995

!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
!!                                                                    !!
!!                         UPDATE NOTE                                !!
!!                                                                    !!
!!  The JUST ADD OS/2 WARP kit electronic image available from the    !!
!!  World Wide Web sites, commercial on-line services, and bulletin   !!
!!  board systems was updated December 15, 1995 with version 1.1 of   !!
!!  the installation program.  If you experience difficulty           !!
!!  installing the diskette, CD-ROM, or earlier downloaded versions   !!
!!  of the kit, please download the new JAOWDSK1.ZIP (disks 2 and 3   !!
!!  are unchanged).  And again, THANKS for trying JUST ADD OS/2 WARP! !!
!!                                                                    !!
!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

Now that JUST ADD OS/2 WARP has been available for a couple of weeks,
the interest has been most gratifying.  Our Web server has been
extremely active with downloads ("on its knees" is a phrase that comes
to mind), the entire run of diskette packages has been distributed,
and the crew at Comdex is expected to come home empty handed after
giving out lots of free CD-ROM copies in Las Vegas.  Press reviews
have been favorable, if not astounded, that stodgy old IBM could take
such an aggressive stand in the market.  For all your responses, THANK
YOU!

With the overwhelming activity on the downloads and 800#, it was
inevitable that some questions arise about the kit, so here is a Q&A
for the most common questions asked over the first several weeks.


Q1) What tool was used to create the kit?

A1) IBM Hyperwise was used to create the kit's textual content.
Hyperwise creates files in .INF format (among others), so they can be
viewed natively by the OS/2(tm) help engine, VIEW.EXE.  Hyperwise
ships with a Windows(tm) viewer as well, so the same .INF file can be
viewed under all of the operating environments supported by the JUST
ADD OS/2 WARP kit.  Hyperwise provides drag-and-drop hypertext
linking, graphic object display support, and external program launch
capability.


Q2) I downloaded JUST ADD OS/2 WARP and I get the following message
when trying to unzip the distribution files:  "Warning!  I don't know
how to handle:"  followed by all the file names.  What am I doing
wrong?

A2) DOS PKZIP 2.04 was used to create the .ZIP files.  If the PKUNZIP
you're using doesn't handle PKZIP 2.04 format, you should be able to
download another UNZIP utility that will.


Q3) Why must the installation utility be run from a DOS Full Screen
session?  Don't you know that you can press ALT-HOME from a DOS window
under OS/2 to turn it into a Full Screen?

A3) The installer scans your computer's hardware and video during the
installation sequence and will not report video hardware and
resolutuion modes if run in a window.  This prevents video corruption
that would be caused when the sniffer queries the video chip set.

Of course, ALT-HOME changes to full screen under OS/2, as does that
"box with four arrows" button on Windows 95.  If you know those
tricks, by all means use them.  They were omitted from the kit in the
interest of simplicity since it runs in all three environments - OS/2
Warp, Windows 95, and DOS/Windows 3.1.


Q4) I installed JUST ADD OS/2 WARP, but I don't see any icons to start
it up.  Where are they?

A4) The installation utility scans your hard drive for the existence
of DOS/Windows 3.1, Windows 95, and/or OS/2 Warp.  As a precaution, it
doesn't scan any partition with less than 6 megabytes of free disk
space so it won't clobber your swap file or leave too little space to
grow your .INI files.  So, if your Windows or OS/2 is on a partition
of less than 6 megabytes, the installer won't find it.  Also, if you
have a highly customized installation with OS files in non-default
directory structures (and you know who you are!)  we may miss it in
some instances.

If you have less than 6 megabytes of free disk space on your OS/2 or
Windows partitions, you may move files to other partitions or delete
them to free up 6 or more megabytes, then reinstall JUST ADD OS/2
WARP.  Alternatively, you can manually create the program icons as
follows:

     OS/2 WARP

        Create a new program object by dragging the program
        template to your desktop.  Enter the following parameters in
        the settings notebook:
 
        Program tab 
           Path and file name   VIEW.EXE
           Parameters           d:\JUST_ADD\BOOKS\JAOWO.INF
           Working directory    d:\
           General tab Title:   Just Add OS/2 Warp
           Current icon         Find d:\JUST_ADD\JUSTADDO.ICO

        where d: is the drive where you chose to install JUST ADD
        OS/2 WARP.  Close the settings notebook to create the icon on
        your OS/2 desktop.


     WINDOWS 95

        Click on the open desktop with mouse button 2 (right mouse
        button by default) and select "New -> Shortcut" from the 
        pop-up menu.  Enter the following parameters in the Create
        Shortcut wizard:

        Command line:  d:\JUST_ADD\VIEW.EXE d:\JUST_ADD\BOOKS\JAOW.INF
        Select "Next" button or press ENTER

        Select a name for the shortcut: Just Add OS2 Warp
        (note that Windows 95 does not allow a "/" character in a
        file name) 

        Select "Finish" button or press ENTER
 
        This creates a program shortcut with the default VIEW.EXE 
        icon. To change to the JUST ADD OS/2 WARP icon, click on the
        Just Add OS2 Warp shortcut with mouse button 2 and select
        "Properties".  

        Select the "Shortcut" tab and press the "Change icon..."
        button. Enter the following parameter:

        File name:  C:\FILESYNC\JUSTADDW.ICO
        Select the "OK" button 
        Select the "OK" button again

        d:  is the drive where you chose to install JUST ADD OS/2 
        WARP.


     DOS/WINDOWS 3.1

        From the Windows 3.1 program manager menu bar select "File",
        then "New...".  

        Select the "Program Group" radio button, press "OK."  
        Enter the following parameter:

        Description:  Just Add OS/2 Warp 
        Group file:  JAOW.GRP
        Press "OK."  

        Open the Just Add OS/2 Warp group you just created
        and select "File", then "New..."  from the program manager 
        menu bar. 

        Select the "Program Item" radio button, press "OK."
        Enter the following parameters:

        Description:  Just Add OS/2 Warp 
        Command Line: d:\JUST_ADD\VIEW.EXE d:\JUST_ADD\BOOKS\JAOW.INF
        Working Directory:  d:\

        Select the "Change Icon..."  button and enter the following
        parameter:

        File Name:  C:\FILESYNC\JUSTADDW.ICO 
        Select the "OK" button
        Select the "OK" button again

        Select "File", then "New..."  from the program manager menu
        bar. Select the "Program Item" radio button, press "OK."
        Enter the following parameters:

       Description:  Go To OS/2 Warp 
       Command Line: C:\FILESYNC\GOTOWARP.EXE C:\FILESYNC\GOTOWARP.TXT
       Working Directory:  C:\FILESYNC

        Select the "Change Icon..."  button and enter the following
        parameter:

        File Name:  C:\FILESYNC\GOTOWARP.EXE 
        Select the "OK" button
        Select the "OK" button again

        d: is the drive where you chose to install JUST ADD OS/2 
        WARP.

Now you will be able to launch JUST ADD OS/2 WARP from your OS/2 Warp
or Windows 95 desktop, and/or from the DOS/Windows 3.1 Program
Manager.


Q5) The OS/2 Warp Upgrade Advisor says that I have enough hard drive
space to install OS/2 Warp, but OS/2 won't install on my PC.  Why not?

A5) If you have installed the disk compression that ships with
Microsoft DOS 6.x or Windows 95 or have installed a compression
utility such as Stacker(tm), and run the Upgrade Advisor from Windows
95 or Windows 3.1, it will appear that there is sufficient free space.
OS/2 Warp, however, cannot be installed to a compressed partition.
Run the Uncompress utility that came with your compression software,
install OS/2 Warp, then use an OS/2 compatible compression tool such
as Stacker for OS/2 and DOS to re-compress your partition.  Stacker
for OS/2 and DOS is compatible with both OS/2 and DOS, and therefore
can be used in the dual boot environment supported by JUST ADD OS/2
WARP.


Q6) The OS/2 Warp Upgrade Advisor didn't see the memory I have
installed on my IBM PC model 95.

A6) The model 95 has unique hardware protection characteristics that
block access to the memory ports under OS/2 by any application other
than the operating system itself.  If you have Windows 3.1 or Windows
95 installed, dual boot to that environment and re-run ADVISOR.BAT
following the instructions in the READ.ME file.


Q7) I chose to install JUST ADD OS/2 WARP to a drive other than C:,
yet it placed the FILESYNC directory on C:  anyway.  Why?

A7) The FILESYNC directory contains the files needed to run the
Windows 95 to OS/2 Warp Dual Boot and Long File Name Conversion
Utilities.  These utilities were placed on C:  because DOS and Windows
95 can only boot from drive C:, and could therefore reliably locate
these utilities.  The majority of JUST ADD OS/2 WARP is contained in
the JUST_ADD and OS2DEMO directories which are installed to your
choice of drive.


Q8) While running under OS/2 Warp, I changed the name of a file that was
created in Windows 95.  When I dual boot back to Windows 95, I don't see
the changed file.  Have I lost that file?

A8) The file is still there, under its old name.  The Long File Name 
Migration utility is a one way street, migrating Windows 95 long file 
names into OS/2 long file names.  By the way, the physical name on the 
disk is still in the 8.3 format traditionally used by the DOS FAT file
system, so the file can always be accessed by its old fashioned name 
as well.


Q9) What is the difference between the download, diskette, and CD-Rom
versions of JUST ADD OS/2 WARP?

A9) The download and diskette versions are identical.  The CD-ROM
version is identical to the diskette version with the addition of a 
very interesting multimedia video production on OS/2 Warp installation
tips, usability tricks, and general how-to featuring that Warped 
man-about-town, David Barnes.


Q10) I would like to put JUST ADD OS/2 WARP on my BBS and make copies
of the diskettes to give to other people who are interested in 
upgrading their PCs, but the license agreement prohibits this.
Is there any way I can help get this information out?

A10) Yes, there is!  Due to the overwhelming response to the
JUST ADD OS/2 WARP kit, IBM is making it available on a wider basis by
relaxing some of the license terms to allow copying and electronic
posting of the kit. All other terms and conditions of your JUST ADD
OS/2 WARP license agreement remain in effect.
                                                                         
You may freely copy and distribute JUST ADD OS/2 WARP either by physical 
(diskette) or electronic (bulletin board system) means. The JUST ADD     
OS/2 WARP kit license agreement shall apply to any additional copies you 
make.                                                                    


Based on the numbers of questions received relative to the number of
copies distributed, it appears that the vast majority of users have
found that JUST ADD OS/2 WARP works well for them.  We hope that this
FREE kit of information and utilities is useful for you, and that you
will exercise your right to chose, and give OS/2 Warp a try.  Thanks
for loading JUST ADD OS/2 WARP!


(TM) OS/2 is a registered trademark of IBM Corp.
     Stacker is a registered trademark of Stac Electronics
     Windows is a trademark of Microsoft Corp.
 
